# HP 7475A

Excellent vintage plotter, find it on eBay and relevant forums/Discord. Good for A4/A3, and holds six pens it can
hot-swap. Current going rate is around EUR 80 depending on condition.

The plotter has two versions: Option 001 has an RS-232 (-C) interface, option 002 has a HP-IB / IEEE 488-1978 interface.
Avoid option 2!

## Hardware

### Hardware failures and replacements

Only two parts of the HP 7475A are known to wear out and need replacement:

The pinch wheels carrying the paper, as people forget to keep them up while in storage, and they wear down and get flat
on one side as the rubber deforms when pressed against the grit wheel for years. Replace them with silicon tubing or the
like.

The other known part to fail is the cam wheel driving the pen swapper, as the plastic is failing over time. You can
[print a replacement](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:4697102).

### Hardware mods



### Hardware operation

Relevant notes information from the [Operation Manual](https://archive.org/details/HP7475AOperationManual/page/n11/mode/2up):

Expected line voltage is printed in a window on a rear panel, double-check when getting your plotter.

**Cleaning** involves removing dust from grit wheels, wiping down the outside and the pen carousel.

## Software

### HP-GL

HP-GL is a graphics programming language understood by the plotter. Instructions consist of two-letter commands, usually
followed by numeric parameters. The plotter will interpret everything apart from RS-232 escape sequences as HP-GL.

The **coordinate system** uses positive values to the top and right starting from the bottom left. The actual coordinate
system depends on if the hardware switches indicate that you're using A3 or A4, and user units or plotter units. +X and
+Y is up and right *as seen in landscape orientation*, so on A4, +X and +Y is up/right, on A3 it's right/down as seen in
the plotter. P1/P2 always start out in the lower left/upper right, again seen in landscape for the selected format.

| Format | mm      | Plotter X | Plotter Y |
| A4     | 210x297 | 0-11040   | 0-7721    |
| A3     | 297x420 | 0-16158   | 0-11040   |

You can also rotate the coordinate system by 90 degrees by holding `enter+fast` or sending `RO 90`. Rotation can only be
toggled on or off, not repeated. Note that the physical location of P1/P2 will persist, while their coordiantes will
change with the rotation. On the other hand, corners will rotate, so `UR` (upper right) will change its physical
location, and `LL` will always be at 0,0. Get the current values of `LL` (lol) and `UR` by running `OH`.

**Plotter units** are the smallest move the plotter can make, they amount to 0.02488mm. User units are used with the
`SC` command to construct a set of units within the P1/P2 plane. For example, `SC0,12,0,1000` creates user units in the
P1/P2 plane, with 12 units in the x axis (for months, for example) and 1000 units in the y axis. P1 and P2 can be
changed with HP-GL or with the front-panel buttons: move the pen with cursor pushbuttons, and then press
`enter+p1`/`enter+p2`. To check positions, press just `P1` or `P2` to move the pen. **Note that moving P1 will also move
P2 in lockstep!** Reset the scaling points by pressing `enter+view` or running the instructions `IN` or `IP` without
parameters. **Note** software rotation is different from hardware button rotation, and actually shrinks the available
space!

### Button controls




## Resources

- [interfacing and programming manual](https://github.com/WesleyAC/plotter-tools/blob/master/plotters/hp7475a/manuals/7475A-InterfacingAndProgrammingManual-07475-90001-274pages-Oct84.pdf)
- [all the manuals](https://github.com/WesleyAC/plotter-tools/tree/master/plotters/hp7475a/manuals)
